.TH mcwm 1 "Mar 18, 2011" "" ""
.SH NAME
mcwm \- MC's Window Manager for X11.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcwm
[ 
.B \-b 
]
[ 
.B \-t 
.I terminal-program
] [ 
.B \-f 
.I colour
] [ 
.B \-u 
.I colour
] [ 
.B \-x
.I colour
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mcwm\fP is a window manager for the X Window System.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-b means draw no window borders.
.PP
\-t urxvt will start urxvt when MODKEY + Return is pressed.
.PP
\-f colour sets border colour for focused window to a named colour,
such as "red".
.PP
\-u colour sets border colour for unfocused windows.
.PP
\-x colour sets border colour for fixed windows, that is, windows that
are visible on all workspaces.

.SH USE
Nota bene: For mcwm to be at all useful you need to know how what keys
generate the Mod1 and Mod4 modifier masks. If you don't know, use
.B xmodmap(1)
with the \-pm option to list them.

With the the default configuration, use mcwm like this.
.PP
Mod1 + mouse buttons:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B 1 
move
.IP \(bu 2
.B 2 
raise
.IP \(bu 2
.B 3 
resize
.RE
.PP
Mod4 + key:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B r 
raise or lower (toggles)
.IP \(bu 2
.B x 
maximize (toggles)
.IP \(bu 2
.B m 
maximize vertically (toggles)
.IP \(bu 2
.B h 
move left
.IP \(bu 2
.B j 
move down
.IP \(bu 2
.B k 
move up
.IP \(bu 2
.B l 
move right
.IP \(bu 2
.B H 
resize left
.IP \(bu 2
.B J 
resize down
.IP \(bu 2
.B K 
resize up
.IP \(bu 2
.B L
resize right
.IP \(bu 2
.B Return
start terminal
.IP \(bu 2
.B Tab
go to next window in the current workspace window ring. If you release
MODKEY mcwm will change focus. A new press of MODKEY + Tab will bring
you back to the window where you last had focus.
.IP \(bu 2
.B f
fix window so it is visible on all workspaces. Toggles. Press again to
unfix window. Also used to move windows between workspaces: First fix
the window, change to the workspace you want, then unfix the window on
the new workspace.
.IP \(bu 2
.B y
move to upper left corner.
.IP \(bu 2
.B u
move  to upper right corner.
.IP \(bu 2
.B b
move to lower left corner.
.IP \(bu 2
.B n
move to lower right corner.
.IP \(bu 2
.B 0\-9
go to workspace n, 0-9.
.IP \(bu 2
.B End
close focused window.
.RE
.PP
If you don't like the default key bindings, border width, et cetera,
look in the config.h file, change and recompile.
.PP
.SH STARTING
Typically the window manager is started from a script, either run by
.B startx(1) 
or a login manager such as 
.B xdm(1).
.PP
If you start from the console, you need an .xinitrc file. Here's a
complete example:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
\&#! /bin/sh

# Set nice background.
xsetroot -solid grey20

# Set nice pointer cursor.
xsetroot \-cursor_name plus \-fg white \-bg black

# Load resources.
xrdb \-load ~/.Xresources

# Start window manager in the background. If it dies, X still lives.
mcwm &

# Start a terminal in the foreground. If this dies, X dies.
urxvt
.fi
.in -4
.sp
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Cardell Widerkrantz <mc@hack.org>.
